By-language ingestion sampling rules syntax (#14522)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_ingestion/mechanisms.md

The configuration can be set by environment variables or directly in the code:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Java" %}}
For Java aplications, set a global sampling rate in the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable. Set sampling rates by service using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_SERVICE_RULES` environment variable.

For instance, to sample 20.00% of the traces for the service `my-service`:

```
# using system property
java -Ddd.trace.sampling.service.rules=my-service:0.2 -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar -jar my-app.jar

# using environment variables
export DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_SERVICE_RULES=my-service:0.2
```

The rate limit is controllable via the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`.

Read more about sampling controls in the [Java tracing library documentation][1]

[1]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/java
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}
For Python applications, set a global sampling rate in the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable. Set sampling rates by service using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` environment variable.

> For instance, to sample 50.00% of the traces for the service `my-service` and 10% for the rest of the traces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to send 50% of the traces for the service named `my-service` and 10% for the rest of the traces:
```

```
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES=[{"service": "my-service", "sample_rate": 0.5}]
```

> The rate limit is controllable via the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a rate limit by setting the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT` to a number of traces per second per service instance, less than the Agent default `100`.
```

> Read more about sampling controls in the [Python tracing library documentation][1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more about sampling controls in the [Python tracing library documentation][1].
```

[1]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/python
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Ruby" %}}
For Ruby applications, set a global sampling rate in the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable.

> You can also configure sampling rates by service. For instance, to sample 20.00% of the traces for the service `my-service`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure sampling rates by service. For instance, to send 20% of the traces for the service named `my-service`:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ruby
```

require 'ddtrace'

Datadog.configure do |c|
  c.tracing.sampler = Datadog::Tracing::Sampling::PrioritySampler.new(
    post_sampler: Datadog::Tracing::Sampling::RuleSampler.new(
      [
        # Sample all 'my-service' traces at 20.00%:
        Datadog::Tracing::Sampling::SimpleRule.new(service: 'my-service', sample_rate: 0.2000)
      ]
    )
  )
end
```

> Read more about sampling controls in the [Ruby tracing library documentation][1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more about sampling controls in the [Ruby tracing library documentation][1].
```

[1]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/ruby#sampling
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Go" %}}

> For Go applications, set a global sampling rate for the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable. Set sampling rates by service using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Go applications, set a global sampling rate for the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable. Set by-service sampling rates with the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` environment variable.
```

> For instance, to sample 50.00% of the traces for the service "my-service" and 10% for the rest of the traces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to send 50% of the traces for the service named `my-service` and 10% of the rest of the traces:
```

```
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES=[{"service": `my-service`, "sample_rate": 0.5}]
```

The rate limit is controllable via the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`.

Read more about sampling controls in the [Go tracing library documentation][1]

[1]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/go
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "NodeJS" %}}
For Node.js applications, set a global sampling rate in the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable.

You can also configure sampling rates by service. For instance, to sample 50.00% of the traces for the service `my-service` and 10% for the rest of the traces:

```
tracer.init({
  ingestion:
    sampler: {
      sampleRate: 0.1,
      rules: [
        { sampleRate: 0.5, service: 'my-service' }
      ]
    }
  }
```

> The rate limit is controllable via the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a rate limit by setting the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT` to a number of traces per second per service instance, less than the Agent default `100`.
```

Read more about sampling controls in the [NodeJS tracing library documentation][1]

[1]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/nodejs
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "PHP" %}}
For PHP applications, set a global sampling rate for the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable. Set sampling rates by service using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` environment variable.

For instance, to sample 50.00% of the traces for the service "my-service" and 10% for the rest of the traces:

```
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES=[{"service": `my-service`, "sample_rate": 0.5}]
```

Read more about sampling controls in the [PHP tracing library documentation][1]

[1]: /tracing/setup_overview/setup/php
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "C++" %}}

> From version `v1.3.2`, the Datadog C++ library supports the following configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in version version `1.3.2`, the Datadog C++ library supports the following configurations:
```

- Global sampling rate: `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable
- Sampling rates by service: `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` environment variable.
- Rate limit setting: `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT` environment variable.

> For instance, to sample 50.00% of the traces for the service "my-service" and 10% for the rest of the traces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to send 50% of the traces for the service named `my-service` and 10% for the rest of the traces:
```

```
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES=[{"service": `my-service`, "sample_rate": 0.5}]
```

> C++ does not provide integrations for OOTB instrumentation, but it’s used by Proxy tracing such as Envoy, Nginx or Istio. Read more about how to configure sampling for proxies in the dedicated [proxy tracing article][1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C++ does not provide integrations for out-of-the-box instrumentation, but it’s used by proxy tracing such as Envoy, Nginx, or Istio. Read more about how to configure sampling for proxies in [Tracing proxies][1].
```

[1]: /tracing/setup_overview/proxy_setup
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab ".NET" %}}
For Go applications, set a global sampling rate for the library using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` environment variable. Set sampling rates by service using the `DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES` environment variable.

> For instance, to sample 50.00% of the traces for the service "my-service" and 10% for the rest of the traces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to send 50% of the traces for the service named `my-service` and 10% for the rest of the traces:
```

```
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
@env DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES=[{"service": `my-service`, "sample_rate": 0.5}]
```

> The rate limit is controllable via the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a rate limit by setting the environment variable `DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT` to a number of traces per second per service instance, less than the Agent default `100`.
```

> Read more about sampling controls in the [.NET tracing library documentation][1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more about sampling controls in the [.NET tracing library documentation][1].
```
